# Stock_Charting_App
This purpose of this project was to design a stock charting application that can be used in real time to track specific stocks of the user’s choice. The main function is to illustrate the fluctuation of stock prices, share volume, daily lows/highs, as well as many other variables that are important in the stock market. All of these variables are constantly changing and so having a tool that will store past data and track trends is very essential to making smarter future decisions. This project is accomplished through java and third-party libraries that allow for GUI building (WindowBuilder) as well as chart designing (JFreeChart).

The graphical user interface (GUI) was created to display data for varying stocks of the stock market. All data is gathered through Yahoo Finance servers. The program issues a request to Yahoo Finance servers that initiates a download of a file that is in the form of .CSV (comma separated value) file. This file is then uploaded directly into a local MySQL database. The stock data is stored in the database and then pulled to show details about a stock and create the charts showing fluctuations over time of stocks. Functionality implemented in the application includes: visually seeing key details of stocks (high, low, volume, price, last trade date, etc), generating a chart for the value and volume of a stock, and a comparison of two charts in a convenient side by side layout.

The application designed is a basic stock charting application. The interface displayed gives an option to select which stock you would like to view and then displays information pertaining to that stock, you can then select which chart you would like to view (Value Chart, or Volume Chart). Also implemented is a stock comparison window that allows you to compare two stocks. This is especially helpful if trying to make a decision in which stock to invest in. as mentioned before, the application is able to gather the data pertaining to each stock by accessing Yahoo Finance servers which is then stored in the database. The application uses jdbc drivers to setup a connection between the application and the database. Next the application sends queries to receive data from the database which is then parsed and displayed in the GUI. In order to visualize the stock charts, an open source library called jFreeChart was used. It has the ability to make a plethora of charts very easily at the user’s demand. 
